I am working with a multi-state industrial pumps group that is seeking an experienced CIO.

The CIO will be a key member of corporate leadership and will need to drive forward operational improvements across the enterprise as the organization expands. As such, the position requires a leader with organizational design and management experiences, IT roadmap and strategic development, effective communication and change management skills, extensive application and infrastructure background, and experience driving process improvement projects.

This position will require IT transformation by establishing a standalone IT application and infrastructure environment, refreshed IT policies and procedures, developing support and help desk SOPs, as well as refining the global IT strategy needed to effectively create an independent organization positioned for growth. Vendor selection and management, and data integrity and security throughout the company will also fall under the position’s oversight. Extensive collaboration with business stakeholders is required to support strategic plans, policies, programs, technology support services, network communication to accomplish business goals and objectives.

Position Duties And Responsibilities
Recommends and develops short and long-term IT strategy and plans for systems implementation, IT service management and operations, capital and operating budgets, and staffing to accomplish business objectives including carve-out standup.
Develops, implements, and monitors IT systems policies and controls, information security, asset tracking control, and regulatory compliance.
Development of holistic ERP strategy and management over implementation and ongoing support services.
Responsible for evaluating, and maintaining technology standards across operations including corporate offices, field offices, retail parts locations and distribution facilities.
Supports acquisition diligence and integration efforts, when necessary.
Develops, maintains, and oversees backup and disaster recovery (DR)/business continuity plans (BCP). Manages institutional risk related to data storage and security.
Directly oversee employees in the Corporate IT Department. Responsibilities include interviewing, hiring, and career development of employees; planning, assigning, and directing work.
Ensures timely, effective use of technology to support business goals/needs and ensures the organization migrates to an effective hybrid in source/outsource model for the provision of information technology services.
Administers the Department’s budget, within budgetary guidelines to contribute to cost effective operations of the company.
Establishes and maintains regular written and in-person communications with the executives, management and key stakeholders on projects regarding pertinent IT activities.
Centrally manages all hardware and software license agreements, communication agreements and vendor contracts.
Defines and communicates project / day to day milestones, service level agreements (SLAs), and resource allocation to executives, management and key stakeholders.
Performs other job functions as assigned.


Essential Education, Skills And Experience
10-15 years’ experience in IT operations, management and best practices
At least 10 years’ experience in a supervisory role; ability to lead people and get results through others, preferably with at least 5 years as a Director, VP or CIO.
Environment Design – demonstrated capability to design and implement an IT environment based on a well-articulated roadmap and strategic vision
Budgeting – proven capabilities in translating technology needs into prioritized plans and budgetary requirements
Executive Communication – ability to communicate effectively with executives and management regarding technology concepts, plans, operations and requirements
Prioritization and portfolio management – proven capability of balancing strategic vision, operational requirements and technology alignment into an overall implementation plan
Project management – demonstrated project management skills ranging from minor technology upgrades to major shifts in technology approach
People management skills – proven experience coordinating a broad mix of IT staff
Proven experience in the design, development, and implementation of software and hardware solutions, systems, and products
Ability to conduct research into systems issues and products as required
Ability to communicate ideas in both technical and user-friendly, business language
Highly self-motivated and directed
Ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks
Experience working in a team-oriented, collaborative environment
Excellent written and oral communication skills
Bachelor’s Degree
E-commerce
