About the job
Major Responsibilities
Manage the vision, design and deployment of cloud infrastructure, including compute, storage, and network systems for cloud hosting
Provide cloud hosting service management strategy, process, and procedures across the organization
Lead a consistent, measurable process to operationalize and scale cloud based strategic initiatives and execution
Manage Capex, and Opex costs; appropriate value for investments
Responsible for running a 24x7x365 Cloud Infrastructure and Operations organization with staff located in multiple Global locations.
Develop and mentor a high performing team of global professionals
Provide strong leadership, guidance, and direction related to cloud hosting service delivery
Work closely with Engineering, Data Center Operations and technology vendors to ensure SLAs are met and quality meets or exceed expectations
Manage adherence to security and compliance safeguards, policies and procedures
Managing change, assets, and documentation for top quality support
Establishes key KPI, SLA's, metrics and measurements demonstrating area health. Communicates through operational reviews. Measures and tracks against industry benchmarks and standards.
Identifies and implements critical metrics necessary to manage and monitor the performance of overall operations including: capacity, availability, budget, and inventory.
Manages and leads vendor relationship to maintain day to day operations and strategic goals for Data Center Operations SLA's and deliverables. Works with current vendor stakeholders and partners to develop and deliver strategic plans. Oversees all data center vendor contracts, streamlining services required and optimizing overall costs.
Develops opportunities for cross-team effectiveness and remove organizational barriers for strong teamwork, collaboration, and excellent service delivery.
Manages budgeting and forecasting, planning, deployment, incident and problem management, change management.

Qualifications

This is a high-profile, GLOBAL position requiring a proven and experienced operations executive, steeped in cloud based platforms. A strategic manager with a high level of business acumen, pension for innovation, natural leadership skills,transformative mind-set and a hyper-focus on making a positive impact!
BA or BS, preferably in business, economics, or a field related to computer science or information science, MBA preferred
15+ years of experience in an operational, management, or services delivery role (Ideally for a Managed Services Provider, Cloud Hosting, or Telecomm company)
5+ years of experience managing high\-volume customer\-facing SaaS applications is required
5+ years of upper management experience and leadership skills
5+ years Hands-on experience in 24x7x365 cloud operations or SaaS Operations
Direct experience driving continuous improvements in process and operational efficiencies. Lead process-improvement efforts and manage the implementation of both business processes and technical solutions. Drive best practices across cross functional teams.
Expert in managing Global Infrastructure and the team that manages Global Infrastructure to meet regional compliance requirements and achieve 99.999% up time with high velocity on ticket resolution and issue remediation.
Knowledgeable in HIPAA, PCI, EU Data Sovereignty and Privacy, and other compliance metrics along with ISO 9000 and other quality assurance metrics and capable of implementing them in a fast growing Cloud environment.
Drive for results with a passion for technology and continuous delivery
Experience building and leading a high performance team across multiple geographies
Ability to quickly drill down to solve problems and take ownership of the resolution
Demonstrated ability to think strategically
Experience integrating with 3rd party service platforms
Experience with configuration management systems and associated automation
Management of "access' under defined compliance standards (i.e. SOC1/2/3, SAS70 etc.)
Strong Leadership and team building skills
Ability to partner cross functionally in order to drive complex strategic projects
Excellent project management skills and ability to work to deadlines suc
