Chief Information Officer, US : 
 
Description
 
This position has responsibility for the entire Information Technology (IT) portolio across US bank through geographic oversight of the following global IT functions; IT Application, IT Infrastructure Delivery, Cyber Security, Risk and Control Enviroment, Data Office, Financial Crime Compliance, IT COO function, Architecture, Operations IT, Global Business and Function IT in the country (Wealth and Personal Banking IT, Wholesale Banking IT, Markets and Securitues IT, Group Functions IT). All the country CIOs by Global Business and Functions supporting US entity are fully responsible and accountable to this positon to  be able to execute on the country strategy and drive the desired customer outcome. All Business and Function CIO roles in country will be aligned to this position and  with the Global Business or Function CIOs from technology strategy, standards, policies and practices prospective. 

 
These functions have a broad impact across all the daily operations of US and significantly influence the overall financial performance of the country and transforming the organization in alignment with the technology strategy as an enabler.

 
More broadly, as CIO of US, the position is responsible for leading the transformation of the Technology portfolio, including the full cost base of the country and is responsible for driving the Technology Strategy in the country, Regulatory environments in conjunction with the respective Heads and CIOs, Financial Crime Compliance, Data Strategy in alignment with the Chief Data Officer (Chief Data Officer), Innovation, Digital penetration in the Country in alignment with the Business priorites and in overseeing and responding to the Cyber Security landscape in allingment with the Chief Information and Security Officer. The CIO role is also fully accountable for the oversight, monitoring and facilitating remediation of the technology control environment, cost management, and in driving the effective agile culture.

 
Engendering teamwork and collaboration across the Country aligned with the global organization is vital, particularly in the era of solid alignment with global businesses and functions CIOs, and the position requires membership (Chairmanship) of a wide number of governance and/or steering committees including (amongst others): Strategic Cost, IT Transformation, High Priority

 
Impact on the Business
Responsible for IT Development, IT Infrastructure, Cyber Security, Risk and Control Enviroment, Data Office, Financial Crime Compliance, IT COO function encompassion cost management, vendor management, program office, Architecture, IT Operations, Innovation, Global Business and Function IT in the Country (WPB, Wholesale, Markets and Securities, Group Functions  Technology), provide vital support to Global Businesses, enabling the achievement of business objectives (AOP and Country Strategic Plans);
Provide the high standards of infrastructure and IT services that are required to support the business operations across the Country.
Assure that all IT support areas operate in accordance with the Group’s values and comply with Group standards & policies, as well as local legal and regulatory requirements.
Deliver high prirority programs to enable business growth and drive the country strategic plans across technology organization.
Resposnible for driving the Technology transformation is strong collaboration with the US EXCO and partnership with the US COO and business in alignement with the overall Bank Transformation.
Customers / Stakeholders
Ensure the delivery of internal customer service as per service level agrements and business perception metrics from all IT functions within the US and supported entities, Provide the high standards of infrastructure that are required to support the operations across the bank in the US.
Quality initiatives and techniques can identify improvements and efficiencies which will streamline IT organanization and reduce expense. Key areas are:
IT Sustainability, Stability and Quality
Identification of customer complaints, root causes analysis and process improvement
Utilizing DevOps. Disciplened Agile techniques to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency.
Improve the Cyber Security Maturity
Leverage Innovation, automation through robotics to drive enhances customer experience and drive business growth
Drive the Data Strategy in the Country consistent and in alignment with the global data strategy
Leadership & Teamwork
 
Management of:

Country CIOs in US, across Global Business and Functions (CIO WPB, CIO Wholesale, CIO Markets and Securities)
IT roles in the Country for US, like Group Functions IT Head, for US, CIO Markets and Securities for US, Technology Busniness Management for US, Chief Information and Security Officer for US etc.
IT Development, IT Infrastructure Delivery, Cyber Security, Risk and Control Enviroment, Data Office, Financial Crime Compliance, IT COO function, Architecture, Operations IT, Innovation, Global Business and Function IT in the Country including Digital strategy (WPB, Wholesale, Markets and Securities, Group Functions),
Operational Effectiveness & Control
The role is responsible for the full cost base of US and has responsibility for implementing the Group IT strategy in the Country.
Operating Costs control and delivering quality of service – ‘doing it right the first time’ (Quality), optimizing headcount and to constantly improve the performance of the IT function in the Country.
Improving hiring and employee turnover.
Identifying operational efficiency while providing service as per agreements with business.
Improving employee engagement.
Effectively manage the 3 lines of defence issues/findings to ensure adequate and effective risk control effectiveness across the Country portfolio
Effectively manage the service sustainability portfolio within the risk appeatite of the group and country
Effectively drive the Cyber Security matrurity across the Country to effectively manage internal and external threats.
Review/monitor and improve the overall technology control environment in the country.
Major Challenges
Operate across a matrixed organization, ensuring that businesses and functions co-operate and collaborate effectively to deliver the Bank’s broader objectives and being instrumental in resolving issues and sorting out priorities with Senior Management locally and globally
Ensure functional departments – deliver quality of service with best resiliance and business growth initiatives which facilitates PBT growth in country while maintaining all the regulatory and controls standards in Country. 
Role Context
The country (US) provides a complex, and yet competitive financial services market.  The Country provides a broad range of financial services and products which also increases complexity.  Finally, the evolving nature of financial services regulation both domestically and internationally mean that counties must be fully compliant with regulations which change frequently.  Working collaboratively with colleagues and other business/function CIOs in the Country is crucial. The objective of the US CIO is to bring the Technology organization together to respond to any situation or crisis as a cohesive team.
Legal and Regulatory changes require the ability to adapt quickly to new laws and regulations to ensure sufficient communication within Country and globally. 
Our people are vital to our success and HR must work closely with the business units to design appropriate compensation plans which drive profitable business results as well as hire and develop the best talent. An HR business partner approach aligns HR with business strategies and goals, acting as a change agent at line level.
IT is a key enabler of our businesses and functions, providing vital services that are often the first point of contact for customers. The quality and efficiency of those services has a material bearing on the market position of the Country.
Finally, the Country contributes to the overall success of HSBC and IT provides services to a number of other HSBC operations across the Country and group.
Management of Risk
There are major areas where risk is managed within the team:
Operation Risk and Controls, Fiancnial Crime Compliance, Cyber Security, IT service Quality, Resiliance risk,
The functional teams are essential in managing and identifying risk across the Country in particular
Compliance with Group and local regulations
Mitigating Operational losses
Financial Crime compliance
Service sustainability and Resiliance
Observation of Internal Controls
Responsible for key internal control areas – Human Resources in Country IT, Service Quality SLAs – which together maintain internal control standards, and ensure timely implementation of standards throughout the organisation as well as any issues raised by external regulators.
Ensure full compliance with external (local regulators) and internal rules (FIM requirements of each area) and guidelines.


 
Qualifications
 

Advanced Degree (Masters degree/MBA);                                                                             
Over twenty years business experience
Prior experience as Country CIO managing distributed workforce;                                                    
Strong and matured leadership skills;
Excellent team player with strong interpersonal skills;
Well developed negotiation skills and ability to influence across the matrix;
Keen understanding of key strategic trends;
Strong customer focus and effective in managing business relationsip;
Ability to drive business development and change;
Strong decision maker and ability to mobilize and deliver resolutions/solutions;
Strong management of Operational, Financial crime and Cyber Risk
Ability to effectively operate in a matrix environment
Strong drive for innovation and digital agenda
Prior experience in driving technology transformation and organization culture change.
