Senior Vice President, Digital Platform Product Delivery

 

Mughal & McRae Executive Search has been retained by one of the fastest growing Tech companies located in Miami; currently seeking a highly strategic and hands-on SVP of Digital Platform Product Delivery.

 

My client, a Multi-Billion Dollar Global PAAS Technology Firm is seeking an individual to lead the full life cycle end-to-end Digital Product Platform Transformation.

They have a fundamental belief that all stakeholder interactions, (employees, customers, consumers); need to be redirected and occur on a fully integrated, custom built Digital Platform, with intuitively and gamification as main guiding principles. The Digital Platform aims to create a fully immersive user experience.

 

The ideal candidate will be a highly dynamic, self-directed, data driven Product Executive who will lead the Digital Platform Product Team and drive the design and development of the full end-to-end platform.

 

My client is offering a highly competitive compensation package including Base + Bonus + Excellent Benefits + Equity. My client will provide relocation assistance to Miami for non-local candidates, as this role will require the successful candidate to be based in the Miami Metropolitan area, Post Pandemic.

 

What will you do (essential functions)

Lead the design, architecture, implementation & management of the Digital Platform.

Own the product roadmap with a focus on customer expectations to define new functions and features.

Drive prioritization of initiatives to ensure development resources are focused on highest value items.

Lead the product design, UX, and UI strategy and execution.

Drive make vs buy decision and the integration of both custom and standard solutions.

Manage the execution of the entire product development lifecycle.

Drive the integration of user engagement and enterprise gamification principles.

Lead, delegate and supervise the work of product & program managers on your team.

Partner with senior executives and other stakeholders from all functions and verticals.

Partner with engineering to drive the execution of the product roadmap.

Structure and prioritize team efforts based on Agile scum methodology.

Drive and support cross functional campaigns with insight and leadership.

Manage the execution of the entire product development lifecycle, including the ongoing management of key processes digitized in the Digital Platform.


Skills, qualifications and experience

Masters in IT, MBA, or related field.

Energetic, intellectually curious and fast-paced executive product leader.

Proven capability of building enterprise-wide digital transformation solutions.

10+ years of product management experience in a fast-paced environment.

12+ years experience in working with the full lifecycle of digital solution development.

Expertise with data and analytics solutions, visualization techniques and predictive analytics solutions.

Strong expertise in user experience design best practices.

Affinity with user behavioral & gamification principles.

Strong familiarity with business and technical concepts such as business process design, application development and service management.

Proven experience in data architecture and/or enterprise architecture.

Demonstrated change management skills, including communication and focus on performance measurement systems, and ability to influence without authority.

Strong work ethics and high bar for quality.

Excellent communication, presentation, interpersonal, and organizational skills.

Proven track record of successfully navigating and collaborating within complex matrixed organization.
