The Investment Banking Division (IBD) works on some of the most complex financial challenges and transactions in the market today. Whether advising on a merger, providing financial solutions for an acquisition, or structuring an initial public offering, we handle projects that help clients at major milestones. We work with corporations, pension funds, financial sponsors, and governments and are team of strong analytical thinkers, who have a passion for producing out-of-the-box ideas

The redacted Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world

 redacted ENGINEERING CULTURE

 At redacted, our Engineers don’t just make things – we make things possible. Change the world by connecting people and capital with ideas. Solve the most challenging and pressing engineering problems for our clients. Join our engineering teams that build massively scalable software and systems, architect low latency infrastructure solutions, proactively guard against cyber threats, and leverage machine learning alongside financial engineering to continuously turn data into action. Create new businesses, transform finance, and explore a world of opportunity at the speed of markets

Engineering is at the critical center of our business, and our dynamic environment requires innovative strategic thinking and immediate, real solutions. Want to push the limit of digital possibilities? Start here!

The Team:

The Cloud Platform team is a global team responsible for engineering the public cloud platform.  Working in close partnership with application teams building the new system, Cloud Engineers are responsible for identifying and securing the public cloud services required, automating their provisioning, and building a highly resilient and scalable infrastructure which will differentiate our offering from the competition.

The Role:

We are seeking highly collaborative, creative and intellectually curious engineers who are passionate about forming and implementing cutting-edge cloud computing capabilities. Candidates should be comfortable working in a fast-paced DevOps environment. 

RESPONSIBILITIES AND QUALIFICATIONS
RESPONSIBILITIES AND QUALIFICATIONS

Partner with colleagues from across technology and risk to ensure an outstanding, useable, and unobtrusive experience for development teams building and deploying their applications into public cloud environments.
Help to define, communicate and promote best practices for public cloud application development across the department.
Develop software and tooling to secure and automate cloud infrastructure and software delivery capabilities.
Preferred tech stack: AWS, Snoflake, MDM platforms like Semarchy.
Design and operation of a Kubernetes environment for container management and orchestration.
Automate the provisioning of environments using Ansible, Puppet and other tools.
Possess strong verbal and written communication skills and ability to present, persuade and influence peers, vendors and executives.
Energetic, self-directed, and self-motivated, able to build and sustain long-term relationships across a multitude of stakeholders in a fast paced, multi-directional work environment.
Exceptional analytical skills, able to apply expertise to drive complex, technical and highly commercial solutions.
Experience supporting complex production application environments.
 

BASIC QUALIFICATIONS

Proficiency in designing, developing, and testing software in one or more of Python, or golang; open to using multiple languages.
Experience architecting, designing, and developing applications in an Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, or Microsoft Azure cloud environment.
Ability to reason about performance, security, and process interactions in complex distributed systems.
Experience with version control, continuous integration, deployment, and configuration management tools in a DevOps environment.
Experience meeting demands for high availability and scale.
Ability to communicate technical concepts effectively, both written and orally, as well as the interpersonal skills required to collaborate effectively with colleagues across diverse technology teams.
Ability to rapidly and effectively understand and translate requirements into technical solutions.
 

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS

 

Experience working in a Linux environment, including system engineering, high availability design, performance analysis, network troubleshooting.
Knowledge of container technologies: Docker and Kubernetes.
Hands on experience in Amazon web services.
Experience using infrastructure as code tools (e.g. Terraform)
Experience in one of the Configuration management system (e.g. Ansible, Salt)
Experience in CICD (Preferably gitlab)
