
This Role Requires

The Team Manager of the Cloud and Datacenter Operations team is responsible for leading a global team of high-performing analysts whose research and insights guide global organizations in their IT Infrastructure and Operations strategy. The successful candidate will be instrumental in driving the team’s influence and impact with IT architects, enterprise architects, and other technical leaders.
A professional manager and leader with outstanding motivational and change management capabilities.
Exceptional people development and coaching skills.
Proven execution skills. The manager will need to be able to prioritize multiple competing time demands, load balance and prevent bottlenecks, and drive complex projects and tasks.
Strong background in Cloud Computing, IT Infrastructure and Operations industry best practices and keeping abreast of changes in industry.
Ability to continuously review and assess coverage in collaboration with Key Initiative Leaders and other Team Managers in order to allocate resources as determined by client key initiatives and strategic investments.
Specific Responsibilities
Inspire and drive forward collaborative strategic thinking. Ensure team delivers highly relevant, quality, thought leading, actionable research output targeted at constituency roles.
Coach team to delight clients in all types of client interactions including developing presentation skills and maximizing POCs and inquiry value and impact.
Contribute to Research’ strategic objectives by optimizing resource to support Key Initiative Leaders (KILs) in addressing key initiatives for target roles within structured KIs.
Drive, direct and ensure on-time and high-quality fulfilment of each relevant research deliverable. Provide high quality, timely TM review of documents and presentations to ensure quality and actionability.
Ensure team members are being effectively leveraged and supporting the sales organization according to POC process. Direct and assign resources to effectively respond to POCs and CED requests in a timely manner.
Manage performance, drive a high performance, collaborative culture and oversee and manage remuneration across multiple geographies.
Hire, develop and retain top talent. Be sensitive to cultural differences and excel in managing a globally dispersed, remote team.
Drive collaboration – exemplify collaboration and first team behavior and ensure the team does too.
Manage expenses prudently to ensure budget and guideline compliance.
Demonstrate outstanding first team collaboration with and support of peers and ensure the team does too.
Ensure team follows Gartner processes.
In summary, team managers are line-of-business (LOB) leaders who advise Gartner’s research on business opportunities for their team’s research topics and markets and oversee expenses to ensure they remain within or below budget. The team manager ensures that clients receive the best advice, support, and direction for their decision-making. Team managers also collaborate with Marketing and Sales to develop the business, promote client satisfaction and increase revenue. In addition, they drive strategic evolution of research coverage within their assigned subject areas, promote strategic product ideas and represent global Research in assigned initiatives.

Qualifications

And Job Requirements
Leadership: demonstrated ability to inspire a team to achieve great things
Execution: demonstrated ability to take concrete actions to execute as well as inspire
10+ years’ experience working within technology field with Gartner or relevant management experience
Bachelor's degree in related field; Masters preferred - and/or relevant qualifications and/or relevant experience
Recognized expertise and solid knowledge in Infrastructure and Operations, Cloud Computing, along with related software technologies to lead relevant research coverage and grow business in this topic area
Polished skills in communication, leadership, planning, motivation, coaching and cross team collaboration
Experience running and leading multi-cultural teams
Credibility to represent Gartner research methodology and strategies effectively at a senior level
Demonstrates high level of influence, negotiation & facilitation skills
Collaboration and consensus building skills with a large diverse group of clients
Excellent verbal and written communication skills in English
High intercultural awareness
North America location
Job Requisition ID:55062

By submitting your information and application, you confirm that you have read and agree to the country or regional recruitment notice linked below applicable to your place of residence.

Gartner Applicant Privacy Link: https://jobs.gartner.com/applicant-privacy-policy
