About the job
Who We Are: Through our service brands Hyundai Motor Finance, Genesis Finance*, and Kia Motors Finance, we provide financial products tailored to meet the needs of Hyundai, Genesis, and Kia dealerships nationwide, including dealer inventory and facility financing. And, through these dealerships, we provide indirect vehicle financing and leasing solutions to over 1.7 million retail customers.

Employee Value Prop and Culture: Our employees contribute every day to a culture that is fast-paced, dynamic, energized, agile, and collaborative.

From our various engagement programs to the unique design of our offices, we strive to foster a connected, fun, positive and rewarding company culture where employees feel appreciated for their contributions, proud of their company, and thrive to be passionately invested in HCA's success.

Global One Company: Many countries. One identity. Hyundai Capital has offices across the world, including China, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Russia, Brazil and Korea. Our work environments are designed with specific themes in mind to achieve a consistent global identity that reflects our values: light, collaboration, elements of nature and symmetry.

General Summary

Hyundai Capital America is conducting a search for an experienced and highly qualified Chief Information Officer (CIO) accountable for defining and delivering IT strategy and capabilities across the enterprise. This includes data analytics and business intelligence, development and support, infrastructure, security and technical services. Reporting to the CEO, the CIO will be responsible for giving oversight and direction to IT and business leaders on strategy, standards, and opportunities for shared services and economies of scale.

The CIO is a key contributor to the company’s strategy and planning process and will be responsible both for IT operations and for technology and digital innovation. It is critical for the CIO to build strong and productive relationships with all business unit leaders, acting as a true partner and making IT a business enabler.

Duties And Responsibilities

Strategy
As a member of the senior management team, make a key contribution to the formulation of the company’s business and digital strategies.
Proactively advise the senior management team on the emerging technologies and digital trends that are most relevant to the company's goals and evolving needs.
Help determine capital investment parameters, priorities and risks for enterprise-wide IT initiatives to maximize the return on investment.

Leadership
Develop an IT vision, strategy, and a roadmap, and lead the IT team and its business partners in effective execution.
Ensure, on an ongoing basis, that current and planned technical architecture, investments and solutions are aligned with company business objectives.
Monitor IT operational budgets that meet prevailing objectives and constraints.
Develop and execute an analytics program that will allow company business leaders to make data-based decisions.
Build strong relationships with business groups and their leaders across the enterprise, and develop a detailed understanding of their issues, challenges and opportunities.
Implement the most appropriate and effective IT organizational design to support and engage with the business.
Ensure transparency and collaboration between the IT organization and its business partners.

Team Development
Foster a culture of innovation, transparency and accountability in IT.
Promote a “business-first” mentality at all levels of the IT organization.
Ensure that the organization has strong systems analysis and project management skills, and the ability to execute business-critical projects.
Develop and maintain a plan that provides for succession and continuity in the most critical IT management positions.

IT Operations
Direct the design and planning, of the computing infrastructure that supports the company’s operations and business applications.
Establish metrics for managing IT effectiveness and for measuring the impact of IT on the business.
Maintain oversight of all IT projects, ensuring that commitments are properly planned, staffed, monitored and reported.
Lead the design of an enterprise-wide disaster recovery and business continuity plan.
Establish and enforce IT policies, processes, portfolio management, development standards and methodologies.
Monitor the industry for developments in IT operations; evaluate relevant new tools and service management frameworks.


Knowledge and Skills;

Leadership and Communications
Can create a clear strategic vision for information technology that supports business objectives, and can execute on that vision.
Able to work collaboratively with diverse leaders, communicate an IT vision and strategy across all levels of the organization, and build consensus around key initiatives and projects.
Possesses exceptional interpersonal and communication skills, both oral and written; able to articulate ideas to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Possesses exceptional business acumen, analytical and problem-solving abilities.
Excellent negotiating skills with internal customers and external service providers.
Comfortable with ambiguity; can handle the unexpected with flexibility.
A team player who favors collaborative approaches when working with internal and external partners.
Proven ability to build trust with others through a commitment to the highest ethical and professional standards.
A high energy executive; tenacious and passionate about reaching the goal, while keeping ego in check.

Transformation
Demonstrated experience driving digital transformation and business growth through innovation and the implementation of technology.
Possesses solid knowledge in emerging technologies, and the ability to apply these in the service of the company’s key business goals.
Experience leading complex, major change initiatives; demonstrated skills in change management.

IT Operations
Experience designing and managing an effective IT governance framework across the spectrum of IT service delivery.
A strong background in operational and capital finances, and IT budget development
Understands ITIL and other service management frameworks, and how to scale and implement them.
15 years of career experience in technology, including a minimum of 10 years in a leadership position.
Experience in a CIO in a global environment or equivalent position is required.
Experience managing a large outsourcing partnership.
Experience in a federated structure with matrixed leadership responsibilities.
A bachelor’s degree is required.
An advanced degree in a related field, such as computer science, engineering and/or business (MBA) is preferred.
