About the job
At HSBC, the health and well-being of our employees remains of utmost importance. Many of our roles are permitted to work from home (in states in which HSBC is licensed to operate) until further notice.

Enterprise Technology includes Risk, Corporate Functions, Compliance, Finance and Operations IT. Our purpose is to work in close partnership with our colleagues in the Functions and Businesses to help deliver the very best of HSBC to our customers and grow the business safely.

The Technology Regional Management Role is accountable to the Enterprise Technology CIO and Regional CIO for ensuring effective delivery of IT services in the region. They are the primary relationship owner with the regional business; acting as a trusted advisor offering advice/support to GB/GF Region Business, Regional CIO, and GB/GF COO to define and assure the regional GB/GF Technology portfolio and IT service.

This role will carry out some or all of the following activities:

Responsibility for all Enterprise IT resources across the US in 3 locations (Chicago, Jersey City and Buffalo)
Primary contact for the CIO’s and COO’s in the US
Local delegate for the CIO of Enterprise Technology IT and responsible (oversight) for local execution since accountable for actual delivery to our customers
Represent Enterprise Technology in relevant forums at the Country and Regional levels
Support the Enterprise Technology Management Committee in delivering the Enterprise Technology IT Strategy.
Consulted on execution of GB/GF strategy at regional level
Operates as a hands-on and highly experienced Technology manager and remains current on technical and professional developments
Maintains a business value-led forward-looking view on how technology can be effectively deployed to deliver business value across 3 locations
Responsible for providing support to Regional CIO on matters relating to GF i.e. relevant regulatory and Board relationships at regional level
Responsible for collaborating with peer Regional Heads, Business, and Group Functions CIOs to implement Business GB/GF goals in region
Accountable to both Regional CIO and Global CIO for ensuring resilient, high quality services are delivered within the region
Budget responsibility and project portfolio responsibility and benefit response
Manage regional entity requirements and working with GB/GF Business to ensure all regional demand is captured and effectively prioritized within the GB/GF global portfolio
Responsible for ensuring deliverables are supportive and in compliance with Regional and ENTERPRISE TECHNOLOGY CIO target state architecture
Responsible for governing the Enterprise Technology programme portfolio in region ensuring the status and impacts to time, cost and quality are reported into all regions and countries
Responsible to the Regional CIO and GB/GF CIO for IT direct cost and charges to GB/GF Region Business
Translating Enterprise Technology strategy to enable local Business teams to realize its objectives.
Partnering and advising Enterprise Technology Businesses and their Management Teams on technology decisions
Responsible for the shaping, evaluation and value assessment of the overall Change Portfolio in Region

Impact on the Business / Function

Proactively identifying and resolving delivery and personnel risks and issues arising from US based project teams
Management of IT relationships locally to ensure and maintain relevance and appropriateness of Enterprise Technology IT strategy with emerging business priorities
Maintain appropriate relationships with GSV to ensure delivery quality meets the needs of Enterprise Technology
Drives changes in delivery practice that generates 10x efficiency improvements. Creates and develops new ideas and opportunities to shape the future of the Enterprise Technology.
Remains current on technical and professional developments affecting the financial services industry.

Customers / Stakeholders

When engaging with local COO’s and CEO’s, is able to articulate complex business issues and ideas very simply.
Leverages strong existing relationships to achieve results.
Anticipates the evolution of local needs and communicates them globally.
Represent IT in business meetings such as working groups etc.
Enable/facilitate local business dialogue to align local objectives with global initiatives.
Establish and maintain effective and collegiate working links with all local customers/stakeholders. Proactively identifying and tackling barriers to cooperation and success.
Updates senior management of Enterprise Technology of local challenges on regular basis.
Support growth requirements for countries/markets and drive priorities with a customer centric approach e.g. resolving known customer facing defects that get deprioritized/not fixed)

Leadership & Teamwork

Counsel key/top talent for their career and development.
Demonstrates and operates as a visible technology leader for the wider Technology community
Provides unique actionable solutions for complex problems.
Anticipate local risks and issues others would not have seen and help mitigate them
Work effectively with:
All Enterprise Technology staff and customers
All global business and global function staff locally
Attend all appropriate training courses related to the role
Responsible for building and nurturing a world-class team to attract, develop and retain talent.
Ensuring that Enterprise Technology resources in the US are appropriately performance managed and developed through the downwards entity management chain and in co-ordination with functional managers

Operational Effectiveness & Control

Demonstrate leadership on Regulatory & Compliance matters.
Maintain awareness of operational risk and minimize the likelihood of it occurring including its identification, assessment, mitigation and control, loss identification and reporting in accordance with section B.1.2 of the Group Operations FIM.
Ensure Operational Risks and Controls are implemented and effective – Identify, record, build remediation plans and organize appropriate governance
Inform, consult and seek the support of the Enterprise Technology CIOs on Regional Board level and regulatory issues and concerns raised to ensure consistent and strategic responses.
Responsible for the approval of new IT outsourced services and work load migrations to cloud on behalf of local management & Enterprise Technology.
Responsible for the ongoing protection and availability of their local critical assets (globally or locally hosted) within the risk appetite set by local senior management and in conformance with regulatory requirements.
Responsible for driving implementation, governing risk responsibly, promoting ethical management of risks, communicating changes in policy and governance effectively, and ensuring in country regulatory processes and procedures are adhered to
Consulted on status of issues relating to critical IT incidents for region/country CIO owned applications, and expert advice provided/facilitated from wider GB/GF as necessary

Major Challenges

The following are an overview of the major challenges for the jobholder:

Geographical scale, distribution and complexity, impact of time-zones differences to operational effectiveness and staff work-life balance
Diversity of global functional business needs and alignment / accommodation of those needs while delivering globally integrated IT services
Conflicting priorities between local and global activities with multiple handoffs across Digital Business Services and Business teams
Different operating models within each region impacting efficiency levels and standardization
Balancing the needs of individual stakeholders and those of the overall Tech Organization

Role Context

Interface with related local IT & Global Business / Functions needs
Regular interaction with all levels of seniority both business and IT, including COO’s, CTO and CEO’s
Travel to facilitate management of objectives

Management of Risk

The job holder will ensure the fair treatment of our customers is at the heart of everything we do, both personally and as an organisation.
The job holder will also continually reassess the operational risks associated with the role and inherent in the business, taking account of changing economic or market conditions, legal and regulatory requirements, operating procedures and practices, management restructurings, and the impact of new technology.
This will be achieved by ensuring all actions take account of the likelihood of operational risk occurring.
Also by addressing any areas of concern in conjunction with line management and/or the appropriate department.
Demonstrate leadership on Regulatory & Compliance matters. Maintain awareness of operational risk and minimize the likelihood of it occurring including its identification, assessment, mitigation and control, loss identification and reporting in accordance with section B.1.2 of the Group Operations FIM.
Maintain and observe HSBC internal control standards, implement and observe Group Compliance Policy, including the timely implementation of recommendations made by internal/external auditors and external regulators.

Observation of Internal Controls

The job holder will also adhere to and be able to demonstrate adherence to internal controls. This will be achieved by adherence to all relevant procedures, keeping appropriate records and, where appropriate, by the timely implementation of internal and external audit points, including issues raised by external regulators.
The job holder will implement the Group compliance policy by containing compliance risk in liaison with Global Head of Compliance, Global Compliance Officer, Area Compliance Officer or Local Compliance Officer. The term ‘compliance’ embraces all relevant financial services laws, rules and codes with which the business has to comply.
This will be achieved by adhering to all relevant processes/procedures and by liaising with Compliance department about new business initiatives at the earliest opportunity. Also and when applicable, by ensuring adequate resources are in place and training is provided, fostering a compliance culture and optimizing relations with regulators.
The term ‘compliance’ embraces all relevant financial services laws, rules and codes with which the business has to comply. This will be achieved by adherence to all relevant procedures, keeping appropriate records and, where appropriate, by the timely implementation of internal and external audit points, including issues raised by external regulators.
Over 10 years banking experience, 15 years post graduate experience.
Managed a Software delivery business.
Demonstrate strong Regional contact.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, or status as a protected veteran.

Job Field: Technology

Primary Location: North America-United States-Illinois-Arlington Heights

Other Locations

North America-United States-New York-New York, North America-United States-New York-Buffalo

Schedule: Full-time

Type of Vacancy: Country vacancy

Job Posting: 03-Mar-2021, 05:42:13
Industry
Banking  Financial Services  Investment Banking
Employment Type
Full-time

Job Functions
Information Technology

