Our Purpose

We work to connect and power an inclusive, digital economy that benefits everyone, everywhere by making transactions safe, simple, smart and accessible. Using secure data and networks, partnerships and passion, our innovations and solutions help individuals, financial institutions, governments and businesses realize their greatest potential. Our decency quotient, or DQ, drives our culture and everything we do inside and outside of our company. We cultivate a culture of inclusion for all employees that respects their individual strengths, views, and experiences. We believe that our differences enable us to be a better team – one that makes better decisions, drives innovation and delivers better business results.

Job Title

Director Engineering Blockchain & Digital Asset

Director Engineering Blockchain & Digital Asset
Who is Mastercard?
Mastercard is a global technology company in the payments industry. Our mission is to connect and power an inclusive, digital economy that benefits everyone, everywhere by making transactions safe, simple, smart, and accessible. Using secure data and networks, partnerships and passion, our innovations and solutions help individuals, financial institutions, governments, and businesses realize their greatest potential.

Our decency quotient, or DQ, drives our culture and everything we do inside and outside of our company. With connections across more than 210 countries and territories, we are building a sustainable world that unlocks priceless possibilities for all.

Overview

Mastercard is looking for a talented Software Engineering Director to join the Mastercard Blockchain and Digital Asset Engineering team in our New York City location. In this role you will be a leading a highly agile team building exiting and innovative products delivered at scale to global markets.

Our team is built on a foundation of research and development, mining innovation internally, innovating new product lines with emerging technology, managing new products from inception to market validation and engaging strategically with startups to shape the future of commerce with and for our customers. At Mastercard you will help define the future of commerce globally.

This team will have a diverse focus both in terms of geography and variety of technology challenges driving hard to bring innovative payment solutions to market.
Role & Responsbilities
Manage a team of highly skilled engineers and deliver software development projects using agile methodologies
Defines requirements for new applications and customizations, adhering to standards, processes and best practices
Research, design and document solutions that can scale globally
Responsible for the project management, reporting and execution of software projects
Lead and/or take part in external and internal events
Strong passion for innovation and new technologies.
Responsibilities Would In 3 Broad Area

Responsibilities will be wide-ranging for the right individual, providing the opportunity to make real global impact for the company & business.

Consulting
Driving the overall solution definition, documentation & securing approval by partnering with product team and our customers
Working with Blockchain leadership team, Labs portfolio team & the blockchain development team, lead specific use case development on Mastercard Blockchain
Partner with internal & external product team creating solutions primarily in the Cross Border B2B space. Knowledge of Corporate/Wholesale Banking domain is preferred
Delivery
Partnering with customer and product team to define the requirement and implementation of the same using Agile Development methodology
Responsible for working with customers & internal stakeholders in executing the delivery that includes development, E2E testing with customers, helping customers understand the blockchain principles, design, certification of the solution and deployment into the live environment for execution of market test
Driving successful execution of the market test, launch and transition
Technology Architecture & Thought leadership
Thought leader in the blockchain space to drive new innovation from defining new networks on blockchain, inter-operability, quantum computing & its impact and in general decentralization
Lead new proof of concepts that builds upon blockchain and other relevant technologies to create a comprehensive use case that solves for business problem
Act as software architect for the project/initiatives assigned and be the technology leader representing engineering from architecture and delivery perspective.
Formally supervises and coaches a large group/team, or several Leaders/ Consultants and is responsible for business execution of goals and objectives.
Ensures own teams compliance to goal setting and performance appraisal process
Helps identify and coach top talent within own teams (includes direct reports and second-line reports)
Provides strategic leadership related to specific applications and systems, or software-development methodologies
Creates and sustains an environment of ingenuity and creativity and challenges the status quo to encourage innovation
Oversees the management of the Software Engineering function and acts as an authority on high-level and complex decisions within the function
All About You

The ideal candidate for this position should have:
Loves creating innovative products and technology solutions in a collaborative fun environment
Advanced knowledge and understanding of modern software engineering concepts and methodologies is required.
Strong leadership and people management skills.
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.
Ability to quickly learn and implement new technologies, frameworks, and tools.
Experience in product development and partnering with business teams to build the best solutions for our customers.
Ability to support multiple concurrent activities and to interface with external / internal resources, working as a member of a geographically distributed project team.
Strong communication skills -- both verbal and written.
Strong relationship, collaboration skills and organizational skills
Be skilled at explaining technical problems succinctly and clearly.
Technical Skills - Java and Spring (preferably Spring Boot, Spring Cloud), relational database & no-SQL etc. e.g(MySQL, Postgres, Hadoop, Elastic etc), experience implementing APIs and SDKs, expert in distributed computing, , expert knowledge of security protocols and encryption, Blockchain concepts and working experience on blockchain technology (R3, Enterprise Etherium, HyperLedger etc), knowledge of various consensus algorithm like Proof of Work, Proof of Stake, Proof of Audit, IBFT etc. Experience in designing multi-layer architecture that are scalable and services oriented
Functional/Domain Experience - Expert knowledge of payment protocols, experience in building technology solutions for developed and emerging markets, experience in a start-up and corporate environment, experience in building and leading successful agile technology teams
Education Level - Bachelor’s Degree in related functional area or equivalent work experience with exposure to management theories and concepts.
Other Experience - Budget and financial management experience.
To be successful in the role, the individual would have a good balance of being a technologist (have been a developer and have risen through the ranks), technical management consulting experience dealing with customers (engaging with customer product management, technology management & development staff) and have managed a team of high performing software engineering team. Individuals with Banking (wholesale banking and/or treasury) experiences would be preferred. Experience with latest tech stack is required, primarily Java and cloud based technology is preferred. Working Blockchain knowledge is required, preference would be given to individuals with deep technical knowledge within the blockchain.

Due to COVID-19, most of our employees are working from home. We’ve implemented a virtual hiring process and continue to interview candidates by phone or video and are onboarding new hires remotely. We value the safety of each member of our community because we know we’re all in this together.
